Hello. My name is Ivan,
and I will be taking you through the rest of the lesson.
So you have just heard from [inaudible] about
the various 3D medical imaging modalities and the clinical specialties that use them.
Hopefully, this helps you understand better where 3D
medical imaging stand in the practice of care.
In the next few sessions below,
we will get technical,
and we are going to dive deeper into
the basic physical principles that drive the two medical imaging modalities,
CT and MRI scanners.
Also, we are going to cover some of
the basic tasks that people discuss in relation to 3D imaging,
windowing, multi-planet reconstruction, 3D reconstruction, and registration.
We are focusing on these two modalities,
because of all the 3D medical imaging procedures,
CT and MRI scans are by far the most prevalent,
and therefore, you're likely to encounter them
one way or another in your AI explorations.
So why are we talking about physics of CT and MRI scanners?
CT and MRI scanners are based on different physical principles, and thus,
the nature of the images that are acquired by them,
the meaning of the pixel intensity values are different.
As you are building algorithms that process the data acquired by these scanners,
it is important to understand the nature of this data as it will help you
develop the intuition required for building algorithms and generalize better.
Understanding basic physics will help you get an idea of
what type of artifacts are possible and what outliers might look like.
So let's dive in.